well meanwhile at least 14 Palestinians
have been killed in the latest Israeli
air strikes in
elat and bures refugee camps in central
Gaza three homes were targeted Israeli
forces have also bombed a car in elat
killing three
civilians all right Hy Mahmud joins me
live now from Dar in central Gaza uh via
phone uh Hy what more can you tell us
about the Israeli troops pullback from
northern
Gaza yes well perhaps the most accurate
description of what's going on right now
given the the history of of this pattern
of behavior by the Israeli military it's
nothing more than a tactical withdrawal
still given the Israeli military and its
occupying forces on the ground the upper
hand in maneuvering and reoccupying
areas in the northern part with what's
going on right now the Israel military
within the past hours early hours of
this morning pulled out of fr from the
uh much of the areas in the northern
part particularly the jabalia refugee
camps and the position in areas that is
still uh giv it the opportunity and the
ability to get back to it whenever it
decides to be on on the ground but in
doing so it just left the trails of
Devastation and destruction to the
refugee camp we're talking about up to
70% of the jabali refi Camp has been
turned into pile of ruins that include
the the public facilities including
schools and Hospitals and Clinics as
well as the infrastructure the
residential homes a particular area in
the jabali refugee camp they used to be
a thriving commercial uh area at the
heart of the refugee camp has been
turned into a more of a a waste PL the
people are going back to check on their
home to inspect on what they are able to
salvage from these residential homes but
there is it's all in vain there is
nothing to salvage as it's either
destroyed severely damaged or was set on
fire by the Israeli uh military right
now it what paramedics and civil the
defense are doing they're trying to
collect the bodies in areas that they
were not able to reach within the past
weeks the past 20 days have been very
difficult Relentless air attacks and
heavy artillery shelling prevented
paramedic civil defense and volunteers
to get to these areas remove bodies as
as as of today and within the past
couple hours they've been able to
recover some of these bodies either from
the streets or from under the rubble
they are largely deceased and been all
transferred to uh calan hospital and
other health facilities that are by the
way have been completely pushed out of
service with when we talk about health
care facilities in the northern part
they nothing but a standing a skeleton
now they don't Pro offer any medical
services whatsoever we are uh literally
talking about a complete cessation of
Medical Services in the northern part
and they serve right now nothing more of
a morg for the bodies that are removed
from the streets or from uh under the
rebeles that the Israeli
military withdrew from the areas but did
not announce which is very important
right now it did not announce an end of
the military operations in Northern par
which means there is a chance that it's
going back again and the the likelihood
of killing more people causing more
destruction are very high are very high
and Hy we understand that overnight
there were more intense Israeli air
strikes
elsewhere yes overnight attacks in the
Central Area continues to to cause more
tragedies and create more miserable
conditions for an already traumatized
displaced populations the family the two
families and the two separate attacks
that were targeted happen to be
displaced families evacuated all the way
uh Within the past week from uh the ra
all the way to the central area seeking
shelters in one of the residential homes
there 11 people have been killed
majority of them men and children and as
we arrived to the site here at the
hospital for uh our reports we found
remaining family members including some
of those with light injuries were here
trying to perform their prayer and say
goodbye to family members who were
killed in the attacks civil defense crew
member told us that there's still more
people under the rubbles we're talking
about at least a three-story building
and the the bomb was quite massive not
only destroyed this house but also
causing great deal of damage to the
surrounding areas pushing people into
further internal uh displacement on a
separate attack a car that was carrying
three family members who just turned
their kitchen that's a private business
into a point to for free meal
distribution for displaced families were
killed on their way to an area that is
better known among daen here as a tea
place to offer free meals for displaced
families they were killed as they were
preparing free meals for these displaced
families all right Hy Mahmud reporting
on the latest from in central Gaza Hy
thank you so much as always